README.md, before:

[![CI for YARN dev tools (pip)](https://github.com/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=OQD6FIFF7I)](https://codecov.io/gh/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
![GitHub language count](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools)


# YARN-dev tools

This project contains various developer helper scripts in order to simplify everyday tasks related to Git and Apache Hadoop YARN development.

### Getting started / Setup

You need to have Python 3.8 and [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) installed.

Run `make` from this directory and all python dependencies will be installed required by the project.


## Running the tests

TODO

## Main dependencies

* [gitpython](https://gitpython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - GitPython is a python library used to interact with git repositories, high-level like git-porcelain, or low-level like git-plumbing.
* [tabulate](https://pypi.org/project/tabulate/) - python-tabulate: Pretty-print tabular data in Python, a library and a command-line utility.
* [bs4](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/) - Beautiful Soup is a Python library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files.
## Contributing

TODO 

## Authors

* **Szilard Nemeth** - *Initial work* - [Szilard Nemeth](https://github.com/szilard-nemeth)

## License

TODO 

## Acknowledgments

TODO


## Example commands


## Setup of precommit

Configure precommit as described in this blogpost: https://ljvmiranda921.github.io/notebook/2018/06/21/precommits-using-black-and-flake8/
Commands:
1. Install precommit: `pip install pre-commit`
2. Make sure to add pre-commit to your path. For example, on a Mac system, pre-commit is installed here: 
   `$HOME/Library/Python/3.8/bin/pre-commit`.
2. Execute `pre-commit install` to install git hooks in your `.git/` directory.

## Troubleshooting

### Installation issues
In case you're facing a similar issue:
```
An error has occurred: InvalidManifestError: 
=====> /<userhome>/.cache/pre-commit/repoBP08UH/.pre-commit-hooks.yaml does not exist
Check the log at /<userhome>/.cache/pre-commit/pre-commit.log
```
, please run: `pre-commit autoupdate`
More info here: https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit/issues/577

## Setting up handy aliases to use YARN-dev tools

There's only 1 prerequisite step to install all dependencies of yarn-dev-tools.
The project root contains a pyproject.toml file that has all the dependencies listed that will understood by Poetry.
Simply go to the root of this project and execute: 
```
poetry install
```

After this, you are ready to set up some aliases. In my system, I have [these aliases](
https://github.com/szilard-nemeth/linux-env/blob/badf82f11f08d77cafbdbb19a1e2da83f392b1e4/workplace-specific/cloudera/scripts/yarn/yarn-dev-tools.sh#L73-L101).

where: 
- SYSTEM_PYTHON_EXECUTABLE should be set to "/usr/local/bin/python3": 
```
➜ ls -la /usr/local/bin/python3
lrwxr-xr-x  1 snemeth  admin  38 Jun 14 23:43 /usr/local/bin/python3 -> ../Cellar/python@3.9/3.9.5/bin/python3
```
- VENV should be set to a virtualenv where yarndevtools is installed to. On my system it is set to "/Users/snemeth/development/my-repos/linux-env/venv"
- HADOOP_DEV_DIR should be set to the upstream Hadoop repo root, e.g.: "/Users/snemeth/development/apache/hadoop/"
- CLOUDERA_HADOOP_ROOT should be set to the downstream Hadoop repo root, e.g.: "/Users/snemeth/development/cloudera/hadoop/"
The latter 2 environment variables is better to be added to your bashrc file to keep them between the shells.


### Examples for YARN backporter
To backport YARN-6221 to 2 branches, run these commands:
```
yarn-backport YARN-6221 COMPX-6664 cdpd-master
yarn-backport YARN-6221 COMPX-6664 CDH-7.1-maint --no-fetch
```
The first argument is the upstream Jira ID<br>
The second argument is the downstream Jira ID.<br>
The third argument is the downstream branch.<br>
The `--no-fetch` option is a means to skip git fetch on both repos.

### How to backport to an already existing relation chain?
1. Go to Gerrit UI and download the patch.
For example: 
```
git fetch "https://gerrit.sjc.cloudera.com/cdh/hadoop" refs/changes/29/156429/5 && git checkout FETCH_HEAD
```
2. Checkout a new branch
```
git checkout -b my-relation-chain 
```

3. Run backporter with: 
```
yarn-backport-c6 YARN-10314 COMPX-7855 CDH-7.1.7.1000 --no-fetch --downstream_base_ref my-relation-chain
```
where:<br>
The first argument is the upstream Jira ID<br>
The second argument is the downstream Jira ID.<br>
The third argument is the downstream branch.<br>
The `--no-fetch` option is a means to skip git fetch on both repos.<br>
The `--downstream_base_ref <local-branch` is a way to use a local branch to base the backport on so the Git remote name won't be prepended.


Finally, I set up two aliases for pushing the changes to the downstream repo:
```
alias git-push-to-cdpdmaster="git push <REMOTE> HEAD:refs/for/cdpd-master%<REVIEWER_LIST>"
alias git-push-to-cdh71maint="git push <REMOTE> HEAD:refs/for/CDH-7.1-maint%<REVIEWER_LIST>"
```
where REVIEWER_LIST is in this format: "r=user1,r=user2,r=user3,..."

## CDSW Initial setup
1. Upload the initial setup scripts to the CDSW files, to the root directory (/home/cdsw)
- [initial-cdsw-setup.sh](yarndevtools/cdsw/scripts/initial-cdsw-setup.sh)
- [install-requirements.sh](yarndevtools/cdsw/scripts/install-requirements.sh)

2. Create a new CDSW session.
Wait for the session to be launched and open up a terminal by Clicking "Terminal access" on the top menu bar.


3. Execute this command:
```
~/initial-cdsw-setup.sh user cloudera
```


The script performs the following actions: 
1. Downloads the scripts that are cloning the upstream and downstream Hadoop repositories + installing yarndevtools itself as a python module.
The download location is: `/home/cdsw/scripts`<br>
Please note that the files will be downloaded from the GitHub master branch of this repository!
- [clone_downstream_repos.sh](yarndevtools/cdsw/scripts/clone_downstream_repos.sh)
- [clone_upstream_repos.sh](yarndevtools/cdsw/scripts/clone_upstream_repos.sh)

2. Executes the script described in step 2. 
This can take some time, especially cloning Hadoop.
Note: The individual CDSW jobs should make sure for themselves to clone the repositories.

3. Copies the [python-based job configs](yarndevtools/cdsw/job_configs) for all jobs to `/home/cdsw/jobs`

4. All you have to do in CDSW is to set up the projects and their starter scripts like this:

| Project                                                                | Starter script location         | Arguments for script          |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| Jira umbrella data fetcher (Formerly: Jira umbrella checker reporting) | scripts/start_job.py            | jira-umbrella-data-fetcher    |
| Unit test result aggregator                                            | scripts/start_job.py            | unit-test-result-aggregator   |
| Unit test result fetcher (Formerly: Unit test result reporting)        | scripts/start_job.py            | unit-test-result-fetcher      |
| Branch comparator (Formerly: Downstream branchdiff reporting)          | scripts/start_job.py            | branch-comparator             |
| Review sheet backport updater                                          | scripts/start_job.py | review-sheet-backport-updater |
| Reviewsync                                                             | scripts/start_job.py | reviewsync                    |

Commit message:

Add initial_setup.sh script so users can easily install yarn-dev-tools

README.md, after:

[![CI for YARN dev tools (pip)](https://github.com/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools/actions/workflows/ci.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?token=OQD6FIFF7I)](https://codecov.io/gh/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools)
[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
![GitHub language count](https://img.shields.io/github/languages/count/szilard-nemeth/yarn-dev-tools)


# YARN-dev tools

This project contains various developer helper scripts in order to simplify everyday tasks related to Git and Apache Hadoop YARN development.

### Getting started / Setup

You need to have Python 3.8 and [poetry](https://python-poetry.org/docs/#installation) installed.

Run `make` from this directory and all python dependencies will be installed required by the project.


## Running the tests

TODO

## Main dependencies

* [gitpython](https://gitpython.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - GitPython is a python library used to interact with git repositories, high-level like git-porcelain, or low-level like git-plumbing.
* [tabulate](https://pypi.org/project/tabulate/) - python-tabulate: Pretty-print tabular data in Python, a library and a command-line utility.
* [bs4](https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc/) - Beautiful Soup is a Python library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files.
## Contributing

TODO 

## Authors

* **Szilard Nemeth** - *Initial work* - [Szilard Nemeth](https://github.com/szilard-nemeth)

## License

TODO 

## Acknowledgments

TODO


## Example commands


## Setup of precommit

Configure precommit as described in this blogpost: https://ljvmiranda921.github.io/notebook/2018/06/21/precommits-using-black-and-flake8/
Commands:
1. Install precommit: `pip install pre-commit`
2. Make sure to add pre-commit to your path. For example, on a Mac system, pre-commit is installed here: 
   `$HOME/Library/Python/3.8/bin/pre-commit`.
2. Execute `pre-commit install` to install git hooks in your `.git/` directory.

## Troubleshooting

### Installation issues
In case you're facing a similar issue:
```
An error has occurred: InvalidManifestError: 
=====> /<userhome>/.cache/pre-commit/repoBP08UH/.pre-commit-hooks.yaml does not exist
Check the log at /<userhome>/.cache/pre-commit/pre-commit.log
```
, please run: `pre-commit autoupdate`
More info here: https://github.com/pre-commit/pre-commit/issues/577

## Use yarn-dev-tools from source
If you want to use yarn-dev-tools from source, first you need to install its dependencies.
The project root contains a pyproject.toml file that has all the dependencies listed.
The project uses Poetry to resolve the dependencies.
Simply go to the root of this project and execute:
```
poetry install
```

## Use yarn-dev-tools from package
If you don't want to tinker with the source code, you can download [yarn-dev-tools](https://pypi.org/project/yarn-dev-tools/#history) from PyPi as well.
This is probably the easiest way to use it.


Please check the [initial_setup.sh](initial_setup.sh) script.
It has a `setup-vars` function at the beginning that define some environment variables:

These are the following:
- `YARNDEVTOOLS_ROOT`: specifies the directory where the Python virtualenv will be created and yarn-dev-tools will be installed to this virtualenv.
- HADOOP_DEV_DIR should be set to the upstream Hadoop repository root, e.g.: "/Users/snemeth/development/apache/hadoop/"
- CLOUDERA_HADOOP_ROOT should be set to the downstream Hadoop repository root, e.g.: "/Users/snemeth/development/cloudera/hadoop/"
The latter 2 environment variables is better to be added to your bashrc file to keep them between the shells.

## Setting up handy aliases to use yarn-dev tools
If you completed the installation (either by source or by package), you may want to define some shell aliases to use the tool more easily.


After this, you are ready to set up some aliases. In my system, I have [these aliases](
https://github.com/szilard-nemeth/linux-env/blob/94748d92ef32689805e89724948dd024a9936d59/workplace-specific/cloudera/scripts/yarn/setup-yarn-dev-tools-aliases.sh).
If you run this script (with `HADOOP_DEV_DIR` and `CLOUDERA_HADOOP_ROOT` specified as mentioned above), you will have a basic set of aliases that is enough to get you started.


### Examples for YARN backporter
To backport YARN-6221 to 2 branches, run these commands:
```
yarn-backport YARN-6221 COMPX-6664 cdpd-master
yarn-backport YARN-6221 COMPX-6664 CDH-7.1-maint --no-fetch
```
The first argument is the upstream Jira ID<br>
The second argument is the downstream Jira ID.<br>
The third argument is the downstream branch.<br>
The `--no-fetch` option is a means to skip git fetch on both repos.

### How to backport to an already existing relation chain?
1. Go to Gerrit UI and download the patch.
For example: 
```
git fetch "https://gerrit.sjc.cloudera.com/cdh/hadoop" refs/changes/29/156429/5 && git checkout FETCH_HEAD
```
2. Checkout a new branch
```
git checkout -b my-relation-chain 
```

3. Run backporter with: 
```
yarn-backport-c6 YARN-10314 COMPX-7855 CDH-7.1.7.1000 --no-fetch --downstream_base_ref my-relation-chain
```
where:<br>
The first argument is the upstream Jira ID<br>
The second argument is the downstream Jira ID.<br>
The third argument is the downstream branch.<br>
The `--no-fetch` option is a means to skip git fetch on both repos.<br>
The `--downstream_base_ref <local-branch` is a way to use a local branch to base the backport on so the Git remote name won't be prepended.


Finally, I set up two aliases for pushing the changes to the downstream repo:
```
alias git-push-to-cdpdmaster="git push <REMOTE> HEAD:refs/for/cdpd-master%<REVIEWER_LIST>"
alias git-push-to-cdh71maint="git push <REMOTE> HEAD:refs/for/CDH-7.1-maint%<REVIEWER_LIST>"
```
where REVIEWER_LIST is in this format: "r=user1,r=user2,r=user3,..."

## CDSW Initial setup
1. Upload the initial setup scripts to the CDSW files, to the root directory (/home/cdsw)
- [initial-cdsw-setup.sh](yarndevtools/cdsw/scripts/initial-cdsw-setup.sh)
- [install-requirements.sh](yarndevtools/cdsw/scripts/install-requirements.sh)

2. Create a new CDSW session.
Wait for the session to be launched and open up a terminal by Clicking "Terminal access" on the top menu bar.


3. Execute this command:
```
~/initial-cdsw-setup.sh user cloudera
```


The script performs the following actions: 
1. Downloads the scripts that are cloning the upstream and downstream Hadoop repositories + installing yarndevtools itself as a python module.
The download location is: `/home/cdsw/scripts`<br>
Please note that the files will be downloaded from the GitHub master branch of this repository!
- [clone_downstream_repos.sh](yarndevtools/cdsw/scripts/clone_downstream_repos.sh)
- [clone_upstream_repos.sh](yarndevtools/cdsw/scripts/clone_upstream_repos.sh)

2. Executes the script described in step 2. 
This can take some time, especially cloning Hadoop.
Note: The individual CDSW jobs should make sure for themselves to clone the repositories.

3. Copies the [python-based job configs](yarndevtools/cdsw/job_configs) for all jobs to `/home/cdsw/jobs`

4. All you have to do in CDSW is to set up the projects and their starter scripts like this:

| Project                                                                | Starter script location         | Arguments for script          |
|------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|-------------------------------|
| Jira umbrella data fetcher (Formerly: Jira umbrella checker reporting) | scripts/start_job.py            | jira-umbrella-data-fetcher    |
| Unit test result aggregator                                            | scripts/start_job.py            | unit-test-result-aggregator   |
| Unit test result fetcher (Formerly: Unit test result reporting)        | scripts/start_job.py            | unit-test-result-fetcher      |
| Branch comparator (Formerly: Downstream branchdiff reporting)          | scripts/start_job.py            | branch-comparator             |
| Review sheet backport updater                                          | scripts/start_job.py | review-sheet-backport-updater |
| Reviewsync                                                             | scripts/start_job.py | reviewsync                    |
